https://blockgeeks.com/guides/proof-of-work-vs-proof-of-stake/


“Proof of work” and “proof of stake” and "DBFT" (Delegated Byzantine Fault Tolerance) are the two major consensus mechanisms cryptocurrencies use to verify 
new transactions, add them to the blockchain, and create new tokens. 
Proof of work is used in bitcoin blockchain, proof of stake is used in ethereum and DBFT is used in Neo.

In proof of work, miners compete with each other to solve for hash value and the first one to solve the puzzle announces it to the whole network and other miners
validate the answer. If 51% of the other nodes validate the answer to be correct, a new block is created and the winner gets both the mining reward as well as the
transaction fees.

The problem with this approach is that all the miners started working to solve the same puzzle and mining consumes huge amount of energy and computing power which 
is wasteful. 

In proof of stake, there is no mining it's validation, forgers deposit some amount of cryptocurrency as a stake and the winner is chosen by an algorithm. 
According to the algo, more the amount of stake, more will be your chances of getting selected. Only the selected node will verify and validate the transactions
sign it and propose the block to the network for validation. All the other nodes in staking pool can attest the transaction. When a threshold number of attestations 
have been made, the network updates the blockchain. All the nodes in the staking pool gets the reward in proportion of their staked amount. 

Issue with POS:
There is aa potential issue with POS known as “Nothing At Stake” problem in which a bad acting Validator places bets on multiple forks so they
theoretically always win out in the end. 
Solution: Slasher Strategy which entails penalizing validators if they simultaneously create blocks on multiple chains. 
Additionally there’s the Punisher Strategy which simply punishes validators for creating blocks on the wrong chain. In this method, 
Validators will be motivated to be selective and conscious about the blockchain in which they put their stake. 

In DBFT, nodes are divided into two categories i.e ordinary nodes and consensus nodes.
Any node can become speaker on the basis of some criteria. The criteria is different from platform to platform (i.e having some equipment, stake etc).
One consensus node is chosen randomly from a pool of consensus node to propose next block. The chosen node is called speaker and other consensus nodes are
called delegates. Then the delegates validates the block. If 2/3rd (66.6%) of the delegates approves the block. The block is added to the chain and then
new speaker is chosen and the process continues.
